hello i'm keith kendrick i'm magazine's
editor of bbc good food and i'm here
with dr shinzo patel
to talk about three things you need to
know around using
spices in children's food dr patel is a
london gp and a mum to two boys
she writes about easy everyday family
food on her blog dr shinto's kitchen
we're here today to talk about spices so
shintel
briefly what do we mean by spices
i think that's a great question keith
thank you for having me on um
for me spices means flavor so i think
people wrongly associate spice sometimes
with heat or chili
um and i'm talking about flavor so all
the flavor from
from kind of those seeds and and barks
and roots from all sorts of plants that
add flavor to our cooking and being from
an indian household
you know spices are the center of most
of our meals it's very cultural
cultural to kind of incorporate them in
children's food from very early on
um so that's what i'd like to talk about
so
why is it important to bring spice into
children's food because i know they
can't
certainly when my kids were young they
have quite bland palettes don't they but
you know getting them excited about
other things is
is that's an important thing yeah well
you say they have glam palettes but
actually
a lot that their palette is formed by
what we give them and what we introduce
them to
and there is so much research into
showing us that actually introducing
lots and lots of variety and lots of
flavors which includes herbs and spices
actually can help to broaden their
pellets it can help in lots of ways to
to benefit them with healthier eating
patterns later on in life
to to benefit them from being less fussy
when it comes to food
and definitely broadening their palates
it might help them in accepting lots of
new foods and flavors
certainly as a working mum for me i'm
very much in mind cooking once for our
whole family
so i don't really have time to make
separate meals for my children and
myself you know we
very much eat everything very similar
foods all together
um and i love eating out we love
traveling as a family and it makes a lot
easier
if they're open to trying lots of new
things and new flavors
and there's lots of health benefits as
well of adding slices and variety to our
foods
yeah i was going to ask you about the
health benefits yeah i i guess
everybody knows about the properties of
things like turmeric and and
cumin and pepper and chili
could you just tell us a little bit
about the health benefits yeah i mean
lots of spices you know are known to
have
benefits of having antioxidant
properties anti-cancer properties
anti-inflammatories lots of research
going into how we can actually
use those properties in the future to
benefit
us and i think people sometimes worry
about
exposing their children to these things
to spices as well but you know they've
actually probably been exposed to them
already through amniotic fluid in utero
and even through breast milk postpartum
so it's perfectly safe to do so
and it's you know it's considered
absolutely safe to do so from six months
onwards from during weaning
so spices are a good thing uh could you
do you have any uh recipe ideas
short ones that our viewers could take
away and
try on their own kids yeah absolutely i
think when it comes to involving kids
um i'm a big advocate of getting kids in
the kitchen and making it fun and i
think that's probably my top tip
so i'd probably you know say talk to
them about spices play with them maybe
feel textures when it comes to things
like cinnamon for example you could look
at the bath and you could look at
the powder and compare and get them to
do it so cinnamon's a great one to start
with or other sweet spices because they
can just simply sprinkle it onto
porridge
or if they're having a banana as a snack
maybe add some flavor to the banana with
a little bit of cinnamon
i would say if i had to give some other
top tips to start very
gentle maybe try one spice at a time
start with very small amounts for
exposure
and build that up maybe
incorporate that spice into some food or
recipe that they're familiar with
maybe try um baking first with sweet
slices such as cinnamon or cardamom
nutmeg that go really well in banana
breads or cakes or biscuits
or you could simply sprinkle them as i
said or add them to a smoothie or a hot
meal
or something thank you doctor for more
recipes tips and advice
her website dr shintelskitchen.com
bye for now
you